# FeatureDCAData

This repository contains supporting data for the **FeatureDCA** project, organized into three main folders. Each folder contains data relevant to the evolutionary analysis and mutational scanning of protein families.

---

## Folder Structure

### `data/`
Contains multiple protein family datasets, originally sourced from the [ArDCAData](https://github.com/pagnani/ArDCAData) repository, used as reference for model training and comparison:

- FASTA files and related sequence data.
- Experimental PDB files that can be used for structural comparison


### `RR_homodimers/`
Data specific for the analysis of the **Response Regulator (RR)** protein family.

- `*.hmm` : Hidden Markov Models used for sequence alignment.
- `*.fasta`: Original and aligned sequences relative to classes **Trans_Reg_C**, **GerE**, and **LytTR** of the RR family .
- `generated_sequences/`: This folder contains sequences generated by FeatureDCA using varying numbers of principal components (**d**), conditioned to the three prototypical sequence classes.
- `experimental_PDBs/`: This folder contains the experimental PDBs relative to the three classes: **1NXS**(Trans_Reg_C, **4ZMS**(GerE), and **4CBV**(LytTR).
- `predicted_PDBs/`: This folder contains the results of AlphaFold3 relative the generated sequences.

### `DMS_beta_lactamase/`
Contains data related to **Beta-lactamase** deep mutational scanning (DMS), originally curated by the Ostermeier lab.

- `*.fasta`: Wild-type and variant sequences.
- `*.hmm` : Hidden Markov Models used for sequence alignment.
- `*.xlsx` : Preprocessed DMS dataset with mutational effects and associated metadata.

